# May Retrospective
## What Went Well
* Celebrated and had fun times with Jamie :)
* Got my first PhD book
* Set up an email server
* Tuition assistance is staill available and I don't need to change my degree plan

## What Didn't Go Well
* Work is cucking me left and right lmao
* Not sleeping well
* Bad habit when talking to people that I get impatiant and don't let them finish
* Not keeping up with blog/YT 

## What To Work On
* Get back on that blog/video grind (consider posting to reddit?)
* Figure out tuition assistance
* Listen to Jamie and keep up the good times

# Weekly Retrospectives
## July 6 - July 10
### Personal
- [ ] 2 Day Rule
- [ ] Workout 5/7 Days
- [X] Jamie Time	
- [ ] Vacuum 
- [ ] Bathroom

### School
- [X] Check of Hill Covers Books
	- [X] Order books
- [ ] Tuition Assistance [https://mypers.af.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/32991/kw/ctap/p/2/p/2](https://mypers.af.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/32991/kw/ctap/p/2/p/2)
-	 [ ] Get program added
	- [ ] Apply
- [X] Parking Pass > wayyy to expensive 

---
Civilian Tuition Assistance Program & Request Process
Applicable to: Civilian

Important: Civilian Tuition Assistance Program (CTAP) is only available to Air Force permanent full-time appropriated fund employees, excluding Air Force (AF) Palace Acquire Interns, Copper Cap Interns, and employees assigned to Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP) coded positions. However, if an APDP coded position employee is seeking coursework at the Doctorate level, they are now eligible for CTAP.
The goal of the Civilian Tuition Assistance Program (CTAP) is to assist civilians in their continued self-development and includes coursework at the associate, bachelor’s, master’s (including Juris Doctorate), and doctorate levels at an accredited college or university and listed in DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding directory. Tuition Assistance (TA) is to be used for course(s) that contribute to occupational and institutional competencies, special interest needs and readiness by supporting the current and future needs of the Air Force. To maximize the availability of funds, AF civilians may request funding for credit-by-exams that will assess college level knowledge via College Level Examination Program (CLEP) and Defense Activities for Non-Traditional Education Support (DANTES) and Subject Standardized Tests (DSST).

Basic Eligibility Requirements
Applicants must:

Be an AF permanent full time appropriated fund employees, including wage grade
Currently have an acceptable performance appraisal rating
Have an approved education goal in the Air Force Virtual Education Center (AFVEC)
APDP coded position employee seeking coursework at the Doctorate level…STOP here and contact your CFT for application since this process is manual. Each member will be required to send a hard copy SF-182 for processing.
Restrictions
The following rules apply to TA funding:

TA is available for two (2) courses per semester / quarter. There is no limitation on the number of credit-by-exam test.
TA can be used for up to 75% of tuition cost, but may not exceed $250.00 per semester hour or $166.00 per quarter hour and $4,500 per fiscal year. The student is responsible for remaining cost.
TA can be used for 100% of credit-by-exam fees at an on-base and/or fully funded testing centers
TA does not pay professional certification fees, charges related to accrediting work or life experiences or the following examination fees: Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT), Graduate Records Examination (GRE), Law School Admission Test (LSAT), Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT), Standard Achievement Test (SAT) or Admissions College Test (ACT)
TA is not provided, in whole or in part, for courses for which the employee is receiving other federal or state tuition subsidies such as Veterans Administration educational benefits, scholarships or grants, etc. However, TA can be used in conjunction with student loans
TA funded under CTAP is not an entitlement or condition of employment and past approved TA does not guarantee future funding
TA funding does not apply to courses at a level lower or equal to a degree already attained by the applying member
Note: Individual(s) with outstanding TA fund reimbursement(s) obligations are denied future TA approval until full reimbursement has occurred or waiver has been approved.
Education Goal Process
Individuals must take the following steps to submit an education goal (This process does not apply to APDP Doctorate applicants; Please contact your CFT Point of Contact for application process):

Note: It is very important that the personal data in the AFVEC education record is accurate and up-to-date.
1. Must register and log-in to AFVEC

2. Complete CTAP Annual Training in AFVEC

3. Create an education goal and submit an evaluated degree plan, provided by the academic institution in AFVEC for the Career Field Team (CFT) review and approval

Example of an Education Degree Plan
Please direct any general questions/concerns regarding CTAP Education Goal process to the appropriate CFT Point of Contact.

TA Funding Request Process
The following steps are taken to process a TA funding request for each course (This process does not apply to APDP Doctorate applicants; Please contact your
CFT Point of Contact for application process):

1. AF civilian will Log-in to AFVEC.

2. Upon having an approved education goal, individuals must create a TA funding request for each individual course. The following information should be readily available to make the TA funding request an easier process:

Exact course start and end dates
A copy of the student registration or student handbook to identify the course, course number, the number of semester hours or quarter hours, and the cost per semester hour or quarter hour
An itemized list of course fees by the academic institution. This information should be on the student registration or paperwork for the course
TA funding request must be submitted between 7 and 45 days before the course start date. If an individual tries to submit the TA request less than 7 days prior to course start date, AFVEC will not accept request and TA funding will not be authorized

3. Once the TA funding request has been completed, the individual submits via AFVEC.

4. The respective supervisor will receive an AFVEC email notification of TA funding request and must:

Acknowledge the course is employee-initiated as self-development that will normally be taken on a voluntary off-duty basis. Although, such courses may be taken during duty hours subject to approval by the employee's supervisor. AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, paragraph 10.11.4
Confirm that the individual has been made aware that a financial obligation may be required if course is not successfully completed
Validate that there is no derogatory information, unsatisfactory progress in training, or changes in duty that would impede the employee from successful completion of the course using TA
Submit TA funding request to CFT thru AFVEC
5. The CFT will review the TA funding request via the AF Automated Education Management System (AFAEMS):

If approved, TA request will proceed to the AFPC Financial Management Office for funding approval
If disapproved, TA funding request will be returned to AF civilian via AFVEC
6. Once the appropriate CFT has approved the TA request, the AFPC Financial Management Office will proceed to approve funding in AFAEMS on a first-come, first-serve basis.

7. The individual and academic institution are then notified of approved TA funding request via AFVEC and AI Portal, respectively.

8. The individual must verify that the AI has received the TA funding request approval via AI Portal prior to the course "drop" date. If the TA approval has not been received, and the individual proceeds to take the course without the TA funding request approval, the individual is responsible for 100% of the tuition cost. For the most current status of the TA funding check AFVEC.

9. If there are any changes to the TA funding request once submitted, it is the responsibility of the Individual to notify the appropriate CFT of those changes (i.e. attendance of a different course, withdrawals, changes in course tuition cost, etc.).

10. Upon completion of a course, the following steps must be taken:

Individual must verify in AFVEC that the grade has been posted. If not posted by the academic institution within 30 days following the course end date, send a grade report or unofficial transcript to the appropriate CFT for update
Grades not reported by 60 days following the course end date are considered missing grades. When a grade is missing, students cannot request further TA until an official grade is reported
If a grade goes unreported beyond 90 days, reimbursement action will be initiated by the appropriate CFT via AFAEMS and individual will receive an AFVEC email notification of debt for the course
Note: Grade waivers are not permitted and individuals who fail to successfully complete a course will be responsible to reimburse the AF. Successful completion requires the following grades:
Undergraduate Courses: Successful completion requires a grade of C or better. If grade(s) are below C, individual must reimburse the AF
Graduate Courses: Successful completion requires a grade of B or better. If grade(s) below a B, individual must reimburse the AF
Please direct any general questions/concerns regarding CTAP TA request to the appropriate CFT Point of Contact.
---

### Work 
- [X] Have a better attitude at work
- [ ] Walk a mile a day
- [ ] 1 Hour DAU this week > More pressing matters to attend to

### Hobby
- [ ] Hobby 5 Hours
- [X] Migrate blog? [https://hostingfacts.com/free-web-hosting-sites/](https://hostingfacts.com/free-web-hosting-sites/) > Good where it is for now
- [ ] Finish coding graphics 
- [ ] Record some Fallout (ACTUALLY CHECK THAT YOU ARE RECORDING)
- [X] Post to blog (upgrading suckless utils)
- [ ] Finish another section of time management post
- [X] Install Gitea
- [X] Finish configuring Gitea
- [ ] Fix Email Gitea
